PAUL LEWIS: Hello, it's
only the bonus round
of Developer Diary for
the Chrome Dev Summit
website with me, your host.
Now, don't-- I'm not going--
I'm not taking it in that
direction.
We got this far without me being
ridiculous-- too ridiculous.
Let's just move on.
So good news.
Yay.
Thing that I've added
to the website is this.
This little button
in the corner.
However, when you click
on the little button,
out comes the notification
settings for the Chrome Dev
Summit website.
Yay.
So the idea we had
was, well, you know,
obviously push is a thing.
Let's add it to the
site so that people
can be notified when
any of the sessions
start or, as you
can see, if there
are event updates like-- I don't
know-- I'm sorry, we're running
late, or don't forget
to get your passes,
or whatever people need.
So when you click on it, I
guess I've already-- yeah,
there you go.
Show notifications?
So I'll allow that.
And it goes off on the back--
it sends the registration
across to the backend server.
And then there we
go, once it's got
a response back from the
backend server that's
storing these
subscriptions, it does that.
And I'll tell you what, let me
register for Darren's keynote,
like so.
Over here, on my
other machine that you
can't see that I can
see, that is down here--
that's why I pointed--
I've got my admin interface
for the backend server.
Bear with me.
Now, what I'm going to do is
I'm going to-- let's pretend.
Let's pretend, you and I, now,
that it is in fact the day
of the Chrome Dev Summit.
And you know, we're
off, we're doing
whatever, we're doing whatever.
And we send out a
notification for the keynote.
And all being well-- la, la, la.
Boop.
There we go, in the top corner.
Chrome Dev Summit, the
keynote with Darren Fisher
is starting now.
And then when you click on
it, because it'll be the live,
it will actually take you
into the Chrome Dev Summit
site or whatever, and
you'll have the live stream
and off you go.
Great.
OK, let me show you around the
code quickly for the things
that I think are interesting.
If you're interested, I can
show you the backend code
in another bonus Dev Diary.
Just let us know
in the comments.
For now, I'm going
to be concentrating
purely on the front-end stuff.
And a lot of it is
actually state management,
so I'm not going to dive
into too much of that
because it is quite
sort of nitty-gritty,
have they clicked this
button, have they done that.
But I'll show you what I
think, hopefully, makes sense.
So the thing is--
the first thing
I suppose is in the
service worker installation
bit I listened on the ready of
the serviceWorker installation.
And if there is a push
manager in the registration,
then I initialize
my push manager,
which I had changed this
morning to push handler.
But I haven't pushed
the code to GitHub
yet, so this is still
the old name for it
because I didn't
want to conflict
with the actual push manager--
I'm an idiot, like anybody
needed a reminder.
However, nonetheless,
we have this init.
In the init we have this setup
which is going to basically
fetch from the remote
server, which we'll see is
the cds-push.appspot.com.
And when it fetches that
and pulls that back,
I've set it so that
cds-push.appspot.com will
respond with the public key
that it needs in order to do
the registration.
OK?
So we get that and we
basically store that back.
Now, I'm using Jake's
idbKeyval to do this
because his idbKeyval
is basically
like this lightweight, super
lightweight, thing that
sits on top of index db
that makes it behave more
like local storage.
Because I just want
name value pairs,
but I don't want to
spend all my time--
I don't use local storage
because it's synchronous
and it can be slow, apparently.
And idb is the right
call, here, but I
don't want to do all
that kind of transaction
open the database
blah, blah, blah.
Don't like that.
It's not a nice API.
And so Jake's written
this idbKeyval,
which kind of does the
Get, Set, Delete keys,
all that kind of stuff.
And it's really nice
and lightweight.
So I'm using that.
So we basically still
have the App key.
And then we basically
do a bunch of updating
of the initial view, which is
set up the controls, make sure
that any buttons
that are on screen
say the right thing so
that if you come back
into the site-- so
for example, let's go,
actually-- let me show you this.
When we go to the schedule, now,
and I go to Darren's keynote,
it says notifications enabled.
It already says that because
that's what that function is
doing is basically looking
for any of those in the update
current view, it's looking
for any of the existing
buttons in the page and
it says, switch them
to notifications enabled
or disabled depending
on what we've actually
got in the key val--
the idbKeyval value
for that session.
Fair enough.
And that's largely what that
stuff is going to be doing.
It's like find here, you
see a updateCurrentView,
find the notification buttons,
find from the idbKeyval
whether it's disabled or enabled
for that particular thing,
and so on.
Processing changes is not so--
it disables all the buttons,
finds out what the current
value is, updates it
using this push manager, and
then it does a bit of toasting
and all the rest of it to
kind of say what happened.
The actual getting
of a subscription
is quite interesting.
You ask the service worker,
and if there is a subscription
already and the key
hasn't changed--
the public key on the
server hasn't changed since,
you can just return it.
Otherwise I set the
Keyval for the app key
and I ask the registration
for a subscription.
And you have to set
this user visible only
to true today in Chrome.
It basically is the key that
says, if I get a push message,
I will definitely
show a notification.
And the other thing is the
application server key,
which is a Base64 encoded
version of the public key
or something.
Oh no, no, no.
It's not.
Actually you have to convert
the Base64 over to a [? UN-8 ?]
array.
I don't know why.
I'll be honest with you, it
was one of those moments when
I saw that and I
was like-- I mean,
surely if I gave it
Base64 encoded string it
would be able to do it for me.
Maybe I should
give that feedback.
Anyway, push manager
handles the global
do you have a subscription?
If not, do you want one?
All that kind of stuff.
The push controls-- not a lot
to really talk about, here.
I mean I know
there's a-- like, it
looks like there's a
little bit of showbiz going
on with that kind
of woo, and the woo.
But really, mostly no.
And so the way it actually
works is-- in fact,
let me just slow it
down in DevTools.
And you'll see it's
actually in canary.
It's a bit blurry.
So I might take a
look at that today.
In fact, let's go at 10% speed.
And-- OK.
The elements that
are doing things
like these is this, which
is-- basically is the button.
And then there's the headline.
And then there's the list.
And the headline and the
list are basically faded out.
And they're transformed down by
100% of the containing element
when they're-- once
they collapse like this,
and faded out.
So I have a ripple inside,
here, and the ripple basically
expands to be big enough
and it's in-- so this, OK.
Let's go back.
This containing element is
however big it needs to be.
And the ripple always expands
and it's overflow hidden.
So as the ripple expands, its
just a circle that gets bigger.
It basically hits the edge of
that block and just disappears.
OK, that's one bit.
Then the-- meanwhile, the button
and the headline and the list,
they're just basically
sliding up and fading in.
And because of the timing of
it, mostly you don't really
see-- there you go.
And it's all scales, transforms,
all the usual-- and opacity--
how do we make it friendly
for the compositer,
the usual tricks,
a little smattering
of will change or whatever.
And you get that effect.
There you go.
And then the picking
up the buttons
is, again, it just tells the
push manager, oh, they clicked
on-- they clicked on this.
And so it disables
the buttons, makes
the remote request,
when it comes back, it
enables all the button.
Right.
Final piece of the
jigsaw today is
what happens in
the service worker
when you got the
message coming in.
How does that work?
Well, when you have
a registration,
there's an endpoint
and some keys
and-- I think that's mostly it--
that you send to your server.
And there's a library called
Web-Push, which we can link to
in the notes, and it will-- it
generates all the keys you need
and does all the things you need
to have a server in JavaScript
to basically encrypt to
payload, which is great,
and ping the endpoint that
you got from the subscription
process, and that's
what it does.
Yeah.
So that means that on the
client side, on the Chrome side,
there is-- in the service worker
that you register this onPush.
So that when the
endpoint gets pinged--
so you make your registration,
you get an endpoint,
you send that to the server.
The server then pings
it with a payload.
That causes whichever
messaging service is actually
underpinning all this
to actually ping back
to your service worker
and go, by the way,
a thing happened-- yay-- which
we get in the onPush, right?
So that's what happens.
We ping the endpoint
and I get-- the payload
I give it is actually
the slug of the session.
So like slash deficit, slash
schedule, slash keynote,
something like that.
And what I then do
is I just set up
an initial payload for this
push, the notification.
And then I basically--
I look up the sessions.
And I go through and I look
to see if the URL matches
the slug that I was sent.
Right?
Yeah.
Thought that makes sense.
The session being what
was actually posted from
is part of the
push notification.
So if I see like, slash deficit,
slash schedule, slash keynote,
I'll go, oh, it's the
keynote with Darren Fisher
is starting now.
And I set the icon to be the
image of the speaker, which
takes me to the next
part of the process
where I do something that
I'm not that fond of.
But honestly, it
feels a bit funny,
but all the same it works.
I take that and I find
the image in the cache.
And then I get a
blob of the image
and then I use a file reader to
read that image as a data URL.
And then I set the icon to be
that Base64 encoded image URL.
Which then means that
I can show notification
with the title and the message
that's been generated entirely
from the cache.
Your alternative is
to just sort of assume
that-- hey, they had a
good enough connection
to get a push, so they
probably have enough data
to go out and get the
image and the text
or whatever I feel
like sending them.
But that's a
request that doesn't
need to be made, in my view.
And also it means that my server
has to be able to go-- OK,
who are you, what do
you need to know, oh,
here's the image you need,
and here's the-- whatever.
It didn't seem like
it's worth doing to me.
It felt like it was sort
of a case of you know what?
All I need to tell you is
which session is starting
and everything else will
take care of itself.
Now, if I send you a
push without a message--
as in without a session,
then this bit will fail.
Don't say fail, it just,
it won't do anything,
it doesn't matter.
And what I'll do
is I just assume
that whatever the literal
text is that came in
is what we should be sending.
So that's how we do
the event updates.
So if in the
backend, we just put
in some random string or emoji
or whatever, when it comes in,
that text will not be matched
to any of the sessions,
so we just propagate it
straight through as that's
what they wanted to say.
Which is true, that's
They didn't want to say one of
the sessions was starting now.
And the icon defaults to
their Chrome Dev Summit 512
icon, which is-- you
probably remember--
is this one here, general Chrome
Dev Summit-iness in an icon.
So there you go.
Good news is that I'm going to
be pushing this out hopefully
today, unless I find any
catastrophic bugs between now
and actually pushing it live.
But I've been working on
this for quite a while.
This has taken some work.
Not on the client
side, surprisingly.
On the server side it's been
quite an interesting process
of just making sure
everything's just aligned
and trying to make sure that
people don't get multi-notified
and all that kind of stuff.
Oh, final bit that I will
show you-- is on-- you
know that user visible only?
Is that what it was?
What was the flag?
It was in the push
manager, wasn't it,
when we did the subscription?
Let me just find out
which exact-- yeah, user
visible only, yeah, it was.
Because that's set to true,
if you remember, I said,
when you have that
flag, you're promising
to show a notification.
Here's something I discovered.
The event for the
onPush, you want
it to wait until-- so
you're basically saying,
OK, don't go away, I've
got some stuff to do.
And this will take a promise.
And when the promise
change finishes,
you must make sure
that you've shown
a notification by that point.
And I was finding out
that sometimes I'd
get my notification.
And then sometimes,
Chrome would say,
this website's updating in the
background, just so you know.
And then I'd also
get my notifications.
So I was getting like a double
notification, and I was like,
what is going on?
Bit of a Stack
Overflow search for me.
And it turns out that
it's because when
you do the self.registratio
n.showNotification call,
you must return it.
It must be part of
the promise chain,
otherwise this promise
chain will finish
and there will be no
notification shown.
And so Chrome will
say, oh, well,
they said user
visible only was true.
So I better put that message
up that says this site
updated in the background.
Fair enough.
And then your show
notification code actually then
kicks in at some other
point, so you end up
with two notifications.
Whereas if you return
it, you're basically
saying that
event.waitUntil will wait
until I've shown a
notification, which is actually
what I wanted to do.
So just an FYI.
I don't recall seeing this
much in various samples
around the web about how to
actually show notification.
You must make sure
that it is returned.
So there you go.
Code is up on GitHub.
Have a proper look around.
As always, thank you for
joining me on the journey.
We're getting very close
to Chrome Dev Summit now.
I think it's like two
or three weeks away.
So you can subscribe
for notifications
if you want to be
notified, now, when
the event's starting
or a particular event--
a particular session of interest
to you is actually starting.
That's the whole point of this.
And also there's the
code there, so you can
have a good old look through.
Brilliant.
Have a great day, and thank
you very much for joining me
on bonus round number 1.
[MUSIC PLAYING]